The IBM Interactive Experience Sydney team had an engagement with the Australian Museum to build a pair of applications, iOS and Android, to track the frogs of Australia. They had an idea whereby they wanted to crowdsource information about frogs, and do it using apps that were fun, informative, and kept users coming back for more. The core idea was that one was able to use a phone's microphone to record a frog call, and optionally take pictures of the frog. This data would be tagged with the user's location and sent back to the museum for analysis and identification. Eventually with enough data, the museum would have the first comprehensive, up to date map of frogs in Australia.

However, the project was changed to also have a dynamically updated database of frogs, with automatic filtering by known locations, so that the user could also guess as to what the frog was. There was more and more scope creep in the project, with the Android team in particular straining to keep up. I was brought on to help, working with the Sydney team remotely. This was a unique experience, and working in a separate location meant I had to become much more effective with written communication, scheduled planning and meetings, and more proactive in seeking assistance when I was stuck. This could otherwise lead to puzzling over a problem all day when the solution was sitting in the head of a colleague on the other side of a Slack conversation. 


As this was my first time working on Android, it required many long nights practicing and understanding Java and Android framework development at home. It was a great opportunity however to see app development from two angles, having previously worked on several iOS applications, and helped in gaining a really deep understanding of mobile development and insights into the design choices of each platform.


Unfortunately the app was still not finished and released by the time my internship concluded, but I am looking forward to the day in hopefully Q2 2017 when I will be able to take the app down to the local creek and record some Eastern Common Froglets. 