My Capstone project for the Masters of Electrical Engineering is based around the RTL-SDR. This is a device which has appeared on the market in the last several years, reducing the cost of Software Defined Radio from thousands of dollars to around 14 AUD. SDR is a process by which a broad spectrum of the radio waves flying past us all the time can be sampled and processed in software, lending a lot of flexibility and opening up a range of avenues of exploration.

My team of three have designed our project, with the final goal of taking a trio of these devices and using them to triangulate the phone signals of the people around us. Using very precise knowledge of the locations of the receivers, as well as custom hardware to synchronise the clocks of the devices to within a microsecond, we will be able to take measurements of the transit time of phone signals to the receivers. Knowing that the speed of light is constant, we can solve a system of equations to determine the location the signal was sent from. This is the same set of equations used by the GPS system, but applied essentially in reverse. After completing a proof of concept using the off the shelf RTL-SDR hardware, we will be designing our own hardware in search of greater precision. 

The key skills we hope to gain from this project are high precision circuit design, with suitable considerations for minimising radio wave interference. We will also need to write mathematically correct and performant software to accurately determine location, as well as system drivers for the custom hardware further down the road. This will help polish well practiced project management and teamwork skills. We are being ably supervised by Dr. Tansu Alpcan.      